This project was conducted based on lumps, swelling, or discolored patches on disease-affected skins. Most skin diseases type can be identified by human's eye to provide medications based on early symptoms. The purpose of this project is to build an image processing based SVM model to classify skin diseases based on an affected area on the skin. The data used in this project is 1081 image data of pigmented benign keratosis, melanoma, and squamous cell carcinoma skin diseases. Based on similar research, image processing based SVM model performs well on classifying leaf diseases based on area of the leaves affected. The data can be found in 

The SVM model was built in Python with Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernel. The dataset was splitted to 90% training data and 10% testing data. To process the data, input data were stored in an array and each image were resized to 300x300. K-means clustering was used to cluster each input data to identify the area affected by the disease. The skin color for each image were removed to extract the infected area. Each image were transformed to grayscale after extracting the infected area. Gray Level Co-occurence Matrix (GLCM) was built from the grayscale dataset.

After acquiring the GLCM, each columns were normalized then each feature is used to built the SVM classification model. Then, K-Fold Cross Validation is used to improve the accuracy of the model. The result shows that the SVM model accuracy increases to 64% from 56% accuracy after implementing Cross Validation method. Finally, the best model is used to classify 48 more data consists of 16 images from each pigmented benign keratosis, melanoma, and squamous cell carcinoma skin diseases. The code to process the data and building the model can be found in the file
